So we have our data in our
table, but we want to see our
sighting locations on our map,
and so to do that we're going to
need to use a tool.
We can shut this table
and go into the processing tab
and open up the toolbox
and now we're in the processing
toolbox. We can search in the
tool that we need and we need
create points layer from table.
So type that in
and once it comes up you can
double click on it
to bring up the tool window
and so to run the tool we need
to put in the parameters
so the input layer QGIS has put
this in for us. It's our
Hippogriff sightings table
and now we need to put in the X
field and the Y field so when we
click on the drop down box we
can choose from the different
column headings which one
represents the X field
and the X field is longitude.
And the Y field is latitude.
And a good way to remember this
is to think that you walk along
the corridor and up the stairs.
We don't need to worry about Z
Field or M Field as we don't
have these in our data
and so the last thing to choose
is our coordinate reference
system.
So this is the reference system
that the points were collected
in and they were collected in
the geographic coordinate system
WGS 1984. So to set this we need
to click on the little button
here on the right
and we could type in the search
bar WGS 84
to try and look for this
coordinate system. But we can
see that it gives us lots of
different choices, and it's a
bit confusing which one is the
one that we're looking for.
So what we can do instead is
type in the WKID number of the
coordinate system, or the ID
number, which is 4326,
and we can see that we've got
it. Here it's WGS 84. So we can
click on this, click OK and now
we can hit run
and that's gonna run out all.
So it ran really quickly. We
just need to shut the table now.
And now on our map we can see
our points,
so we just need to right click
on the points in the layers and
click zoom to layer to see them
all and there we go. We've
successfully plotted the
sighting locations from the
Excel table, so just remember to
hit save.